All right, picture this. You're trying
to pick a health insurance plan and
someone says, "Dude, just choose between
HDFC Erggo or Tata AIG. Both are good,
but what does that mean? Good for what?
Good in terms of premiums, good in terms
of network hospitals, good in terms of
claims experience. There's a lot more
under the hood when you're actually
comparing two health insurance plans.
Hello everyone, I'm Shashank and you're
watching DTO insurance. Today we're
doing a proper no jargon deep dive
comparison between HDFC or Go's Optima
Secure and Tata AIG's Medicare Premier.
Two heavyweight policies that a lot of
people ask us about. And before we
start, if you want a personalized free
consultation to choose the right plan
for you and your family, just book a
free call with DTO's advisor. Links in
the description. No spam, no pressure,
just pure clarity. All right, first up,
let's get to know our two players a
little better. HDFC Erggo is backed by
HDFC Limited and Erggo International AG
and they've built a massive reputation
for comprehensive coverage and a stock
hospital network. Their health insurance
business is massive. 13,000 plus network
hospitals, 98% claim settlement ratio
and they've kept complaints at just
about 7 to8 per 10,000 claims which is
very low for that size. Tata AG on the
other hand is a joint venture between
the Tata Group and American
International Group that is AIG. They've
gotten about 11,000 plus network
hospitals and a CSR hovering around 96%.
Slightly lower than HDFCOG, but still
good. Their complaint volume is about 11
per 10,000 claims. Slightly higher, but
still manageable. Now that the
background is set, let's get into what
these plans actually offer. Starting
with HDC Ergo Optima Secure. This plan
is kind of a gamecher in terms of
structure. You get something called a
secure benefit, which basically doubles
your base coverage from day one. So if
you buy a 10 lakh summon short, it
immediately becomes 20 lakh rupees. Plus
you also earn a bonus of 50% every year
on renewal irrespective of any claims up
to 100% of your base summon short.
Meaning by year 2 you're sitting on 25
lak cover and by year three 30 lakh
rupees. Now coming to Tata AIG Medicare
Premier, this plan position itself
slightly differently. Medicare premier
isn't just about hospitalization. It's
about covering a lot of the fringe
expenses that you often pay from your
pocket. Even if you have a normal
policy, for starters, you get global
coverage. If you're diagnosed in India
and need to travel abroad for treatment,
they'll cover it under your summon shot.
Prehospization cover is 60 days. Post
hospitalization varies depending on your
summon shot. 90 days for under 50 lakh
cover and 200 if your summon shot is 75
lakh or more. No room restriction, no
copay, no disease by sub limit. Good
basics all sorted. But here's where Tata
AIG tries to stretch further. You also
get OPD benefits after two years.
Consultations, pharmacy bills,
diagnostic tests, they are all reimbured
up to specific limits depending on your
summon shot. Dental treatment like root
canal extraction fillings are also
reimbursed. There's also vaccination
coverage for a wide range of vaccines.
Maternity benefits if you stay long
enough for the plan with 50,000 rupees
to one lakh payouts depending on your
cover amount. Now if you compare the two
from a slightly clinical perspective now
let's say premiums at a 10 lakh sum
insured for a 30-year-old individual
HDFCO optima secure costs about 16,800
rupees while Tata AIG Medicare costs
about 14,100 rupees. So yes Medicare
premier is slightly cheaper but it's
because Optima Secure is giving you
double sum in short straight from first
day while Tata AIG gives you exactly
what you buy. Now coming to bonus
structures. Both plans offer 50% bonus
each year up to 100% maximum. But HDFC
go lets you push your coverage a lot
higher because of the secure benefit
plus the bonus stacking up. Tata Aig's
bonus is a bit simpler. Bonus builds up
but once you claim it reduces
restoration benefits. Both offer
restoration after the first claim in a
policy year but again HCFC Ergo allows
an unlimited restoration option via a
paid add-on. Tata restricts it to just
once per year. Now coming to waiting
periods, start a medicare premier has a
slight advantage here because they
reduce the peed waiting period to 24
months that is 2 years compared to HDFC
goes 36 months in some cases that is 3
years. Also maternity cover and OPD kick
in after 2 to 4 years depending on the
benefit which HDFCO doesn't include
within Optimus secure at all unless you
buy additional riders. Hospital network
HDFCO wins here hands down because
13,000 plus network hospital versus
start AIG's 11,000 plus. So finding
cashless facilities will generally be
easier with HDFC go. Now if you ask RTO,
from a pure hospitalization and value
for money point of view, HDFC Go Optima
Secure is very hard to beat, especially
when you load up the unlimited
restoration add-on, the financial
protection it offers is next level. But
if you're the kind of person who values
having some OPD cover, maternity
benefits, dental coverage, vaccinations,
and global hospitalization under one
umbrella, and you're willing to stay
longer with the insurer, then Tata AIG
Medicare Premier gives you a richer and
more comprehensive healthcare package.
Even if you might pay slightly more over
the long term, and hey, if you're
getting stuck between these two options,
don't stress. Seriously, insurance is
confusing even for finance people
sometimes, book a free call with DTO's
advisers. will not only help you
understand which one suits your life
better, but we'll also tell you if maybe
there's a third plan that's even better
for you. Link is in the description. And
yes, our services are completely free.
One last thing before we wrap up, folks.
Whichever plan you choose, make sure you
think 10 to 15 years ahead, not just
this year. Health costs are rising fast.
Pick a plan that doesn't just fit your
wallets today, but also something that
secures your peace of mind tomorrow. And
if you're serious about getting it right
the first time, there's no harm in
booking that free call with DTO. It's
free. It's helpful and honestly it could
save you lax later. Links right below.
Thanks for tuning in folks and if you
found the comparison useful, hit the
like button, subscribe for more clean
insurance explainers and share this with
anyone you know who's been stressing
about buying health insurance. Catch you
in the next one. Until then, happy
insurance hunting.